[Music]
if you're accidentally caught in a rip
current
don't try to fight it and swim straight
back to the shore
you'll just get exhausted too soon
instead
try to swim parallel to the shore until
you exit the current
and only then move toward the shore
if you're trapped on thin ice and
there's no one to help you
lie down on your stomach and spread out
your arms and legs
if you have ice picks use them as a grip
to get back to safety
if you don't have them then you'll have
to roll away in the same direction you
came from
this will help to spread out the weight
of your body evenly
if you're in a sinking vehicle you'll
probably try to just
open the door but water pressure won't
let you
you can do it only when the car is
filled with water and the pressure
equalizes if you're stuck break the
window
but do it the right way hit the window
not in the center but on the edges
if you manage to remove the headrest
from the seat then use it to break the
glass
the headrests are different depending on
the car model so make sure you know how
to remove the ones in your car
if someone is keeping you against your
will and your hands are tied by a cable
tie
first untie your shoelaces slip one of
them through the cable tie loop
and then secure it to the other shoelace
tightly now keeping your hands close to
your chest
kick both legs as if you're cycling the
friction created by these movements
should make the cable tie snap if you
hear the security announcement while
traveling by plane
and the emergency exits are made known
be sure to count how many rows it will
take to get to the closest one
if the plane gets filled with smoke or
there's no light during the evacuation
you could count the number of head rests
until you reach your exit
your pre-planned counting could also
help others get out
[Applause]
if you're falling from a cliff do your
best to break your way down to several
parts
the shorter the better each of the
segments will absorb
some impact of the fall and you'll have
much higher chances of surviving
try to grab onto a sturdy object like a
bush or a rock on your way to the bottom
to slow down your movement a piece of
wood or a plank can also be useful
it might help you to soften your fall
when you hit the ground
if your pan has caught fire don't take
it outside or try to put the fire out
with water
it'll worsen the situation cover the
flames with a metal lid
this way you'll take away the source of
oxygen your movement should be fast
but smooth and calm remember to keep the
lid between yourself and the flames
leave it on until the pan has cooled if
a fire is tiny and manageable
you can use salt or baking soda to put
it out
by the way using baking powder flour and
other cooking powders that look like
salt or baking soda
is a big no-no they won't help you
because their chemical makeup is
different
if you find yourself in a panic-stricken
crowd
your main task is to create some space
around yourself
to do it keep your hands by your chest
your arms bent at the elbow
boxers often use this position to
protect their vital organs
don't cross the crowd's path move
together with it
slowly drifting toward one of its sides
be careful not to block anyone's way
because
in this case you can be pushed to the
ground if you're with your family
put the kid on your shoulders and let
the weaker members of the family go in
front of you
this way you'll be able to control the
movement and won't lose anyone
if someone's attacking you from behind
on the street stomp on their foot
do it with all the strength you have and
aim for the top of the foot
it can damage and even break several
foot bones which will make it difficult
for the attacker to follow you
now if you get locked in a car truck try
to send an
sos signal to people outside to do it
look for the tail lights wires there are
usually at least two of them for each
light
find something sharp in the trunk and
cut one of those wires
when you connect the ends again the
lights will flash
if your car breaks suddenly stop
responding ask the passengers
if you have any to make sure their seat
belts are buckled
then turn on the emergency lights inform
other drivers you're having an emergency
by using your car horn
and long range lights with strong and
abrupt moves
press the brake pedal that's how you can
create pressure in the braking system
after that down shift carefully and put
the gear shift into the
l position if your car has a mechanical
gearbox
press the clutch pedal after that use
manual brakes but do it very slowly
a sudden movement and your car will
begin to drift
to slow your car down you can also try
to turn left and right going from one
row to another
all right houdini i hope you'll never
find it useful
but it's always good to know your way
out use any kind of wire
like material even paper clips or hair
pins will do the job
put the end of the wire into the keyhole
and bend it at a right angle
then pull it out a bit and bend it in
the other direction
then stick it into the very edge of the
keyhole
following all the bends move it around a
bit and it will eventually
open the lock trust me how do i know
this
that's a good question assuming you
don't have anything sharp around
and can't use your teeth you can still
free yourself
using only your shoe laces untie your
shoes
and make a loop with laces around your
left foot
then pull a shoelace around the rope and
tie the end of it to your right foot
move your legs as if you were riding a
bicycle this way the shoelace will
eventually cut the rope with friction
and you'll break free we won't ask how
you got that way in the first place
if you spotted a shark in the water it
doesn't mean it's going to attack
if it passes by in the distance in a
straight line you have
all the chances to get calmly away to
the beach
just don't start to panic and move
steadily if the shark is going your way
in zigzags
then you know you're in trouble but you
can fight back
the weakest spots on the shark's head
are gills and eyes
most sharks won't try to fight you
they'll just swim away
hmm that really bites first of all have
some clothes on
no wait that's a different spelling of
bear never mind
let's talk about the animal kind of bear
first
don't provoke the bear they naturally
don't see humans as their prey
if they aren't starving after a long
winter's nap if you run
you're telling them that you are food
move slowly and always leave an escape
route for the bear
try to make yourself look bigger than
you are spread your coat wide
stand on your tiptoes but don't be
aggressive just make the bear think that
it's better for it to go
mind its own business
if you're calling an emergency service
first of all give them your address
only after that should you explain the
reason for your call
in this case even if something or
somebody forces you to end the
conversation
the operator will already know where to
send help
if you get disoriented after diving and
can't figure out which way you should
swim to get back to the surface
exhale the bubbles will start to rise
and all you have to do is to follow them
any scratch or bite received from a wild
animal can lead to rabies within 10 to
15 minutes after the accident
you should thoroughly wash the wound and
rush to a hospital
every next hour lowers your chances of
survival
if you're crossing the road and see a
bright sun reflection on the windshield
of an oncoming car
chances are the driver won't see you let
them pass
even if according to the road rules you
have the right-of-way
always plug your nose when you jump into
a lake or a pond from high up feet first
the water could be swarming with
dangerous one-celled animals
and the most horrifying among them is
something known as the brain-eating
amoeba
if you don't plug your nose this amoeba
can get into your nasal cavity with a
powerful
stream of water from there it can reach
your brain
and as you may guess from its name this
won't end well
on the other hand if you simply swallow
this one celled organism
it won't harm you whatsoever
[Music]
okay it's getting dark and you've got
that gut feeling as if someone's after
you
the first thing you might want to do is
to start walking slightly faster
this trick can help you either get rid
of the suspicious person behind you
or confirm your worst fear
now it's official there's somebody
dogging you
your heart rate is insane the heart
pumps your blood as never before
try to make turns three or four right
turns are enough to bring you back to
your starting position
this trick will do two things first
you'll have a chance to disappear
especially if you know the neighborhood
well second
you'll once again confirm this person is
after you
try to take those turns wisely the
moment you make one
start running to make the follower lose
sight of you
don't do that if you've never been to
this area the odds aren't in your favor
you're more likely to get lost or worse
get trapped in a dead end
you might get lucky and meet someone you
know in the street like your beefy
neighbor with that rottweiler you're
kind of afraid of
if there are some people walking by even
if you've never seen them before
just say loudly hey there basically
pretend you're friends
tell them someone is following you and
ask them if they can walk with you to a
more public area
until you find another way to get home
a big no is to enter your condo when
you've been followed
even if a group of people are offering
to help sounds creepy
but your street follower will probably
remember where you live
and might want to come back later but
let's consider
you're not lucky the street is deserted
there's only you
and that creepy person behind make sure
your clothes won't let you down
if you're wearing a hoodie tuck the hood
down the back of your jacket to hide it
if your hair is up in a ponytail or bun
let it down
as you walk it'll be harder for your
follower to grab your entire set of hair
or pull your clothes if they have
nothing to hold onto
your clothes and shoes can actually help
you escape if you were caught by a
stranger
you can try to squeeze out of a jacket
hopefully you've got the front zip kind
high-heeled shoes seem to have been
designed for self-protection
certainly not for walking one of the
most effective techniques
to save yourself when you're being
attacked is the footstop
stamp with all your strength you've got
on the top of your stalker's foot
sounds rough but it will definitely draw
their attention to more urgent stuff
flat shoes will work too but they're
obviously less effective
you gotta shake that stranger off if you
aren't far away from the busy road you
just left
you can pretend you've forgotten
something pat your pockets
act like you're looking for something
say out loud shoot where's my wallet
don't go look for the phone the stranger
is going to think you don't have it
which makes it easier to catch you also
never say that you've lost your keys
they'll come in handy later now start
walking
even faster in the opposite direction
your stalker will be less likely to
pursue someone who's running towards a
busy road
bonus they were probably after your
wallet not you
they aren't really that likely to dog
someone who doesn't have money
you're getting hungry but you don't have
anything to start a fire with
empty your pockets there might be
something in there that you can use as a
makeshift fire starter
if you have a battery and a metal
chewing gum wrapper you're in business
cut a thin strip of the wrapper long
enough to connect the two sides of the
battery
the middle of the strip should be
thinner than the ends grab some dry
grass twigs or even some paper
whatever you're going to use to start
your fire the foil strip should ignite
right away
so make sure you're ready a human can go
surprisingly long without food
but not water depends where you are but
a lot of the time
it might not be safe to drink
you can make a diy water filter start
with a fire
boiling the water may not be enough so
as soon as those ashes are cool
grind them into a powder don't just use
any ash you randomly found in the forest
it might have some melted plastic on it
or something
then you need a plastic bottle cut off
the bottom
and poke a small hole in the cap turn it
upside down put about three inches of
charcoal in
and pour the boiled water in nice and
slowly
the drips are ready to drink if you're
getting bits of ash in the water
wrap a piece of clean cloth around the
cap for some extra filtration
a char cloth can come in handy if you're
lost in the wild
to make it you're going to need a metal
container with a cover
put a piece of cloth inside it and put
the container into a fire for a few
minutes
the cloth should end up getting a bit
black around the edges
but still be intact a char cloth catches
fire super fast
even with an old school flint
if you're ever hiking in an anaconda's
backyard listen up stay away from
shallow rivers
because these giant snakes love to hang
out there if an anaconda decides to give
you a little squeeze
don't exhale every time you do the
snake's gonna squeeze you a little bit
tighter
anacondas do have a weak spot though
they don't like their tail to be bitten
it's not exactly delicious but it'll get
the job done
avalanches are pretty powerful so
remember these tips next time you're out
on the slopes
if things get a bit hairy first off
cover your mouth
use a scar for some other piece of cloth
and don't let the snow in
keep one arm straight above your head
and don't forget to dig out a little
pocket in front of your face
that'll let you breathe for about a half
hour
get rid of anything heavy you're
carrying even if it's expensive
but make sure you hold on to your
backpack it's an extra layer of
protection
and grab onto a tree if you see any to
get back to the surface
move like you're swimming straight up
snow is just water anyway